# Why Pointers?

**Pointer**: A pointer is variable that contains a memory address.

## Vectors use Dynamically Allocated Arrays

The vector calss is a data container that internally uses a dynamically allocated array, an array that can adjust its size at run time. 
When a vector is created, the vector class internally dynamically allocates an array with an initial size which can be specified with the vector constructor. 
If the number of nodes in the array exceeds the size, a new array will be created with a bigger size to accomodate. Each time the internal array is allocated, the array's location changes in memory. As a result, the vector class uses a pointer variable to store the memory location of the internal array.

```cpp
vector<int> vecNums(5);
vecNums.at(0) = 9;
vecNums.at(1) = 1;
vecNums.at(2) = 6;
vecNums.at(3) = 8;
vecNums.at(4) = 3;
cout << "Size: " << vecNums.size() << endl;

vecNums.push_back(2);
cout << "New size: " << vecNums.size() << endl;
```

## Inserting/Erasing in Vectors vs Linked Lists

Nodes are stored in a vector contiguously, which enables immediate access to any node of a vector using `vectorName.at(i)` or `vectorName[i]`. Since vetors store nodes contiguously, inserting and deleteting nodes on large vectors can be resource intensive.
A call to insert() or erase() can require thousands of instructions and cause the program to execute slowly. This is often refered to the vector erase/insert performance problem.

A linked list can be used to make insertions faster. A linked list consists of nodes that contain both data and a pinter to the next node. As a result, insertion and deletion are fast writes. No shifting occurs. 

## Pointers Are Used to Call Class Member Functions

When a class member function is called on an object, a pointer to the object is automatically passed to the member function as an implicit paramter called `this` pointer. 
The this pointer enables access to an object's data within the object's class member functions. A data member can be accessed using this and the member access operator for a pointer `-->`. 
EX: `this-->sideLenght`.

```cpp
void ShapeSquare::SetSideLength(double side) {
  this->sideLength = side;
}

// ...

int main() {
  ShapeSquare square1;

  square1.SetSideLength(1.2);

  // ...

  return 0;
}
```
